Hi everyone, thank you for sticking around to the last talk here.
My name is Tran, and this is me two years ago, fresh out of academia, pre-pregnancy.
This was the day before I started my job at Bristol Myers Squibb.
Very excited, as you can see.
Now, like with many new jobs, my first weeks were filled with training and orientations
and getting to know my new co-workers, familiarizing myself with everything else in the organization,
which left me feel like this a few weeks later.
I still remember the moment when I first learned to ski, and I felt like I started to get the
hang of it.
I felt confident, I'm on a nicely groomed trail, I can turn my weight forward, feeling
very good.
But then comes a powder day.
Now, if you ski, you know what happens.
Everything falls apart.
I am no longer in control, I cannot turn, there's way too much powder, and I was scared.
I felt like I wasn't good enough, and there was still a lot more to learn.
Well, at BMS, I started my hands on like a few different bigger projects, and I had very
little contacts on them.
Most of my time was spent digging around for essentially non-existent documentation, and
any progress at that point felt extremely incremental.
But in retrospect, I think the onboarding process can be structured quite in a straightforward
way with three items on the checklist.
You want to understand the company systems, where the servers are and everything.
You want to build relationships with your new colleagues, and I do think that you also
want to develop some new skills and start to contribute.
So like Lydia's journey of learning data science, how she structured that around R4DS, my argument
today is that by structuring the onboarding process around a small doable problem, you'll
be able to check off all of these items on your list.
Lucky for me, this problem came very quickly after I joined.
So we were in a bigger brainstorming meeting when my manager, Ian, sent this message on
Teams.
Do we have a BMS color theme?
Would be very useful.
So I thought, well, I can continue to get frustrated and struggle with these two bigger
projects or I can take on a new one that is more fun and hopefully more doable.
And today, I'm here to tell you the story, what I learned in building this package that
I later named BMS Dash and how rewarding it felt and the environment, the very engaging
and productive environment that it created.
So first, the questions.
Before you build anything, you're always faced with tons of questions.
Mine was, where can I find the color templates?
What about the fonts?
What are these .WORF2 and TTF files?
I've never seen them before.
How does Shiny work?
I've never built a Shiny app before, although many people in my team have.
And then once I get something, then where do I host the app?
And I've heard about this BSLib package that's very good for theming.
Will it be useful?
And is there a way to circumvent the manual installation of fonts on the user's computer?
And finally, once I have this package together, how do I distribute?
At first, I was trying to work through all these questions by myself, doing my own research
and everything, but I soon realized that these questions were a great excuse to talk to my
incredible new colleagues.
So let me introduce you to my co-author of VMS Dash, Leslie, Clara, Lon, and Ian.
These individuals have been incredibly welcoming and supporting to me from the beginning.
When I first joined, they would answer every single question I had from, oh, where is the
branding information store?
Or how do I ignore this file when I deploy my Shiny app?
And also, these questions, so instead of one-on-ones, instead of going through these
small talks and ask about, oh, how was your day?
What did you do during the weekend?
I had these real questions that they can answer, and they were great starting points for conversations.
I was surprised to learn that at VMS, we actually used a lot of Posit products before it was
called Posit Team.
So for VMS Dash, I would develop the package on Workbench, deploy some of the example Shiny
apps and Flex dashboards and notebooks on Connect, and then finally, once I had the
package, I could distribute it on, I could put it on Package Manager so that other people
in my team and the company can download and use it.
I also learned about the JIRA Ticket System, Confluence Pages, and how to set proxy when
I'm on VPN so that I can download the R packages from Crayon, because somehow VMS blocked that.
What new R skills have I learned?
I learned that bslib is magical.
I don't know if many of you here have used it, but it's great for Shiny, and especially
in my case, on the theming side, if you've seen BS stands for Bootstrap.
If you've used this function BS Theme Preview, what it will do is spin up an example dashboard
for you.
In here, you can choose what theme you like, the colors, the fonts, and once you're done
with all of that, all you need to do is close the app, and what bslib would give you is
this snippet of code that you can basically copy and paste into your theme argument in
your Shiny function, so incredibly helpful if you haven't checked it out, I highly recommend
you do so.
So that's basically what I did.
I just wrapped it around a function I called BMS Light, and then put those color hex codes
into my default argument, and then called BS Theme in my function.
What about the dot, dot, dots?
So the rest of this function was to do fonts.
Initially, it was really hard to kind of figure out all these font things, and the user would
have to install the font and load it into R manually.
What I did was digging around the bslib GitHub issues and found this really nice issue, and
I said it's really nice because the poster had created an excellent reproducible example
where I found this one line that was helpful in my case.
They said, oh, this line borrows the font from bslib, so then I learned that, oh, I
just need to put these wolf2 font files that I found earlier in the branding information
into my inst directory in the package, and then use this function, add resource path
in my package.
So that's what I did.
Put it into unload, and finally, another tidbit here is that you have to use this font,
the package, to add the font into your environment, so in this case, the font that we have is
BMS Humanity.
All right.
So with all of that together, now all the user have to do is to change theme equals
BMS Light, and then you would get an app that looks something like this.
You would have the BMS signature, Passion Popal, and also our BMS Humanity font, and
I couldn't capture the entire screenshot here for obvious reasons, but hopefully you can
have a feel of what it looks like.
I also added a few different functions for ggplot theming.
So for example, this is an example plot using the default theme, but once you add scale
fill BMS and theme BMS, it would change the color to use our own colors, the BMS colors,
and then using the Humanity font again.
I learned, so this function is show BMS colors.
I find it incredibly helpful.
I sort of stole this from my friend Jake Riley at the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia
when I saw his talk, but yeah, just a great, he's done something, internal package for
CHOP as well.
But I think this is a great way to show, especially with the new RStudio IDE, you can see all
the colors and everything, so that the user can kind of pick which colors they want, and
they don't have to go dig deep into any documentation for, you know, oh, what colors should I use
if I want this to be kind of looking like BMS brand.
Okay.
One last tip on BSLib.
So with all of that, your DD data table, if you use it in your app, which we do a lot
in our organization, it may still have this default blue when you select a row, and if
you're like me, that's really annoying, like this blue in the middle of all the purple.
So to change this color, however, you can use BS add rules to add a little bit more
sass into your app.
So this just speaks to kind of how customizable BSLib is.
And finally, just a warning, is to watch out for different bootstrap versions.
So make sure to kind of, you know, try to pass through that version argument, because
you may have a different shiny app and different, with different versions.
So if the user wants to use a different version, they can do so.
All right.
So I'm now happy.
I think all of my skills have kind of improved a little bit in R, but also some of my new
relationships, I've gotten a handle of, I've gotten some understanding of the company's
internal systems.
There was still a lot more to learn, but I was happy to know that, you know, the package
was used right away, and it's still being heavily used today.
Very exciting to see, you know, any app, any new app that comes out that have this, you
know, BMS dash theme.
I'm a huge fan of packages, because of all of these advantages that it gives you, you
can read more on about, you know, advantages of internal packages in this amazing blog
post by Emily Reeder.
Some of the ideas for creating, like, starter packages, if you're a new hire, is to get
your package to connect to databases, or perform some simple imputation missing values, of
imputation of missing values, or common visualizations or data aggregations.
But it doesn't have to be a package.
If you're a new hire, you can just add more to the documentation, or if the documentation
doesn't exist, create Wasm, put it in a notebook, deploy it on connect, make it visible for
other people to use.
You can create setup guide, how to set up your VS code to work with R in this EC2 instance.
Or you can make benchmarks.
So this is an example notebook written in Corso by a recent hire in our team, Jonathan
Chang.
And as you can see, it uses BMS dash, and actually is not just BMS dash, but BMS dash
for Corso, which my colleague Jimmy here made as an extension to BMS dash.
And so yeah, just by kind of working through this, I think Jonathan put this together maybe
in less than a week.
He learned Corso, he learned connect, and kind of how to deploy all of this document.
And by the way, he's a Python programmer.
But we love Python at BMS too, and in this particular instance, he was trying to compare
the speed in data wrangling in Pandas, Polars, and Modern.
So all that is to say, I think focusing on a small problem is really, really valuable.
The success of BMS dash, I think it's not the end of the story here.
I like to think that it's the start of a culture of knowledge sharing in our team, and beyond
in the department as well.
So we have BMS dash, I eventually pull some of the theming out to a different package
I call BMS pal.
We have potent for those response analyses.
So now scientists don't have to kind of copy code here and paste it there.
We have all things BMS, which is actually not a package, but something I started writing
down, you know, how to request access to this particular server.
And then many other have contributed to it.
So including my summer intern last year, so very excited about that.
We also started BMS connect widgets, which is a package to track user stats on our deployed
documents.
Okay.
So my call to action for you today is that please be welcoming.
If you have a new hire on your team now or soon, please invite them to contribute to
your existing project.
Using the hashtag good first issue is a really good idea to do so, so they know where to
look.
Be kind and flexible and patient.
You know, they're new.
They still have a lot to learn.
So don't make them contribute to something so big and expect results right away.
If they contribute to your packages, give bravos, give authorships so that we can all
build together.
And don't get me wrong.
I think everyone on the slope will have to fall once in a while in order to learn.
But my hope is that together we can help each other fall a little bit more gracefully.
Thank you.
All right.
Thank you, Cheng.
So again, we are taking questions on Slido.
So you've done a wonderful job of walking us through sort of that process.
I'm wondering if you got to go back and do that again, what might you adjust or do differently?
That's a great question.
I think maybe just talking to more people and don't afraid of get networking, like Lydia
said.
Yeah, because it was, you know, when you started it, you feel like everything is so new and
you don't know where things are.
And so it took me a long time to kind of figure out all this information.
But yeah, I think your co-workers are there to support you.
So just get talking.
Yeah.
Fantastic.
Let's thank Lydia again.
Thank all of our speakers.
Thank you.